Agent Relay × Ratify Phase 2 Technical Note: Verifiable Authority Across a Company Boundary · Ratify Protocol
Skip to content Ratify Protocol ™ Protocol Docs Labs Security Writing Try it Break the proof ☰ Protocol Docs Labs Security Writing GitHub
Writing
Agent Relay × Ratify Phase 2 Technical Note: Verifiable Authority Across a Company Boundary
Ratify Protocol · August 25, 2026 · 23 min read
agent-relay
delegation
case-study
verifiable-authority
Share LinkedIn X Email Agent Relay and Ratify Protocol completed the Phase 2
cross-deployment engagement across two sessions, on August 18 and 19, 2026. One company's
digital workers did real work in another company's repository under narrowly granted
authority that was narrowed again when it was passed on. The client revoked that authority
while the work was still in progress.
There were two sessions because the first left three things uncaptured, and we would
rather say that here than have a reader find two merged pull requests in the repository and
work it out themselves. §5 covers what was missed and how.
Agent Relay has written its own account of the same engagement, from the side that had the
authority taken away from it:
Someone else's agent in your repo .
This note is the record underneath it.
The Phase 1 technical note
recorded what a local integration spike found and named the boundary it left open:
federation between independent Relay deployments, including rejection of the same local
resource identifier under a different deployment authority. This note records what happened
when we ran that across two deployments we operate separately, what passed, what we measured,
what we got wrong, and what remains unproven.
I want to be direct about the last two. Three things everyone involved believed were working
turned out not to be, and we found all three before the recording rather than during it. That
part of the record matters as much to me as the part that passed.
1. The question this engagement answers
Why would one company let another company's digital worker touch anything that matters?
The hard question is not how the worker gets access. Access is easy, and that is the reason
the question is hard. An API key says nothing about who authorized the work, what they
authorized, or whether that authorization still stands. When the worker belongs to someone else, runs on
infrastructure you do not operate, and coordinates through middleware you cannot inspect,
"trust our logs" is not an answer. The coordination layer is a party to the transaction. It
cannot also be the referee.
An answer has to be something either side can check for itself afterwards, without calling
the other company and without trusting the pipe the work traveled through. It requires
authority bounded to the thing being worked on and an expiration time. The authority must
also support withdrawal while work is in flight and leave a trail a skeptic can verify
offline.
2. What was built
Two deployments, operated separately.
Client Contractor
Hostname relay.ratifyprotocol.com ratify.agentrelay.com
Runs on a GCE VM Ratify operates Cloudflare Containers Agent Relay operates
Software Agent Relay's engine and adapter Agent Relay's engine and adapter
Both deployments run the contractor's software. The independence comes from separate
operators, hosts, keys, state, and credentials, not from different code. This is the harder
case and the honest one. If the proof holds while both sides run the same binary, it holds
because of what the proof carries rather than because the implementations differ.
The work happened in /docs of
identities-ai/ratify-agent-relay-engagement ,
a public repository built for the engagement. Nothing production-critical sat in the blast
radius, but its history was public and its CI was real. The engagement ended with a real
pull request.
Between the two deployments, the only things that crossed were Agent Relay's A2A messages and
Ratify delegated-authority proofs. The two sides shared neither a workspace nor a filesystem,
and they shared no code or logs. GitHub is the third party in the arrangement and carried the
fork, the commits and the pull request, which is ordinary and is why the repository is public.
3. What passed
3.1 Authority was granted narrowly
The client issued a delegation to the contractor's lead agent. Not "this worker may write
files" but "this worker may write files under /docs of this repository, until this time,
unless revoked sooner."
Copy
cert_id relay-run-1787074501
issuer 345140967b9b99a16983cdfeb8acc807 client root, held on one laptop
subject 5a727611736ec8902a419e04fc91d816 Agent Relay's lead agent
scope files:write, identity:delegate
bound to git:github.com/identities-ai/ratify-agent-relay-engagement under /docs
issued 2026-08-18T17:35:01Z
expires 2026-08-18T21:35:01Z
The second scope exists for one purpose. It permits the single narrowing hop described below,
and nothing else.
3.2 Authority narrowed when it was passed on
The lead agent handed the task to the implementation agent across the deployment boundary.
The child delegation kept files:write and dropped the right to delegate further.
The contractor, rather than the protocol, chose that narrowing. The lead held
identity:delegate , so passing it forward unchanged would have been a legal subset and the
protocol would have accepted it. What the protocol guarantees is that authority can only
shrink along a chain, never grow. Shrinking it further than required is the contractor
exercising that guarantee rather than the protocol compelling it.
Authority also narrowed in duration, which is a property we had not previously demonstrated
and had not intended to claim. Sub-delegation sets a child's lifetime to the smaller of what
was requested and what remains on the parent.
The artifacts contain their own control for this. Three children, each requesting 600 seconds
through the same code path, one issued against a parent with room and two against a parent
without.
Copy
work-43528b2bab594b4d requested 600s, parent had 1194s left granted in full, 600s
work-a925b80b3684b8e5 requested 600s, parent had 453s left cut to 453s
work-f9bb76e93710b6f6 requested 600s, parent had 451s left cut to 451s
The two short ones expire on relay-run-1787078590 's exact second, not at a shorter default.
So the mechanism is visibly choosing the parent's remaining window when that is the smaller of
the two, rather than children simply being issued briefly.
The clamp binds a child's window at the moment it is issued. It does not retroactively
shorten a child that has already been issued if the parent is later cut short. That case is
covered by two other mechanisms: the verifier checks each certificate's own window, and
revocation propagates, which §4 demonstrates. The distinction matters because the stronger
version of this claim, that a child can never outlive its parent, is not true as stated.
Those two children demonstrate the shape of the hop. They were issued after the run under a
fresh root, and they are not the certificate behind the merged write. That one is gone:
sub-delegation mints it in process and neither logs nor persists it, and its identifier is
random hex. Asked for it, Agent Relay said so rather than minting a replacement and
presenting it as the original.
3.3 The write was gated on the verifier's answer
The implementation agent wrote under /docs , committed, and opened a pull request. The work
itself was deliberately ordinary.
It became evidence because the write happened downstream of a verdict. Before any bytes
were written, the agent presented the delegation chain to the deployed verifier for the
exact path it intended to touch and published nothing until the answer came back accepted.
It then presented the same chain for a path outside the prefix and required the refusal.
Copy
PR identities-ai/ratify-agent-relay-engagement#5
opened 2026-08-18T17:49:48Z from AgentRelayBot:ratify-run-2026-08-18
commit b1b43035 author and committer AgentRelayBot
file docs/handoff-note.md 1307 bytes
merged 2026-08-18T18:35:10Z main 21dbaa5
verifier 0c7afc4cb45cc3987cf1003f7957af5d
requested path docs/handoff-note.md -> authorized_agent, granted [files:write]
control path handoff-note.md -> constraint_denied, outside the prefix "/docs"
The control is the part that matters. The same certificate authorizes the write inside
/docs and is refused outside it, which is what makes the acceptance a decision rather than
a default. An acceptance from a verifier that accepts everything provides no evidence, as
an earlier unresourced presentation in this engagement showed when every test passed.
A receipt carries no identifier. It is named by its own hash, prev_hash chains it to the
receipt before it, and the deployment's decision binds to it by receipt_hash . The claim
being made is about the wire format, which is why it demonstrates cleanly once a pair is
captured.
One field in those decisions reads oddly, and it is better explained here than discovered in
the evidence. The decisions paired with revoked receipts carry served: true , while the
refused federation grant carries served: false with unserved_authority . The field does not
mean that the deployment would have served a revoked certificate. It initialises true and
is cleared only by the deployment's own authority check, which runs only when core
verification has passed. A revoked certificate fails core verification, so that check never
runs and the field is never cleared. It records that no policy refusal happened, not that the
work was served. Revocation is a protocol refusal, and served only ever describes a policy
one.
Copy
receipt hash OOnGiGy8HkmT+L5Pyvg8T7R/zqU0Y5rQpsvImFRx0bo=
receipt says authorized_agent
deployment served=true, authority=ratify.agentrelay.com
That hash belongs to the second session's write, the one merged as PR #7. The pair bound to
the first session's write was emitted and not persisted by either side, so it is gone.
Receipts and their decisions now persist on every call and the hash travels in the pull
request body, so the per-commit record exists going forward rather than only for a run.
3.4 Authority was refused where it did not apply
A Relay coordination channel is a resource whose identity is anchored to its deployment, in
the form relay:v1:<host>:channel:<id> . The host fixes which deployment's namespace the
resource belongs to rather than serving as decoration.
The refused grant is cryptographically valid, with nothing wrong in its signature chain.
What fails is deployment policy, and the distinction matters: a verifier serves only one
deployment authority and refuses resources belonging to any other, with the policy reason
unserved_authority . Authority to act and resource namespace are two separate facts, and
they are checked separately. A verifier that treated them as one could be talked into serving
another deployment's resources by a perfectly signed proof.
Both halves ran in the second session, against the deployed adapter under the client root,
over a real channel on the contractor's workspace rather than a fixture. They had run the day
before under an ephemeral root the contractor minted, which proved the wiring and the policy
but said nothing about whether the client's trust root was honoured.
Copy
served relay:v1:ratify.agentrelay.com:channel:213287751714545664
core authorized_agent, deployment served true
receipt gwDnZE8NcTSsJz2PSKSwDVZuqBa8HPJ7UbX8keJWdeo=
unserved relay:v1:relay.ratifyprotocol.com:channel:213287751714545664
refused unserved_authority, served false
receipt still reads authorized_agent
receipt 0rYU5tBGF51ZIRZbKwxZ8s2vzQ+6OUGqWxMexC/rzME=
Policy refused while the protocol did not. The receipt is signed over the untouched core
result, so it records what Ratify concluded. The
separately signed deployment decision is what records the refusal to serve. Had the refusal
also broken the chain result, unserved_authority would be indistinguishable from a bad
delegation, and a deployment could hide its own policy behind the protocol.
Neither certificate carried a path prefix. Ratify treats an undefined path_prefix as
authorizing the whole named resource, and the empty string is not a valid encoding: it is
rejected on the wire, where the failure reads as a malformed certificate rather than as a
namespace grant. The client tooling was emitting an empty string and was corrected before the
session. A path constraint on a channel resource would also have put a second thing under
test at the same time, and this beat is about the namespace.
What made the beat runnable at all was a defect found while building the driver for it. All
four verifier call sites in the adapter passed the git repository constant unconditionally, so
a Relay identifier could never reach the serve-authority policy. The verifier could always
evaluate one, and nothing could ever hand it one. No test could show that, because every test
drove a git resource.
4. The kill switch, and what it measured
Your browser cannot play this video. Download it instead . The client revokes at 18:02:09.706Z. The contractor's deployment applies it 1.417s later, the next handoff returns revoked, and an unrelated certificate still answers. Silent by design: the contractor captured no audio track. Timestamps are printed by each terminal, not added in the edit.
Mid-task, the client revoked the upstream delegation. The next handoff returned revoked
and the action did not happen. The contractor's middleware did not get a vote, and neither
did the contractor.
This ran in both sessions. The times below are the second, which is the one both sides
recorded.
Time (UTC) Event Recorded by
18:02:09.706 Revocation sent, HTTP 201 client tooling
18:02:11.123 Applied, applied_count 1 contractor adapter metadata
18:03:01.702 Revoked certificate, same path refused
18:03:09.431 Control certificate authorized_agent
18:04:27.027 Revoked certificate again refused
18:05:44.799 Agent run again, nothing created verified by absence, both sides
Send to applied was 1.417 seconds. We publish that as a bound and not as a measurement. The
contractor's drain poll runs every three seconds, and two samples taken at opposite ends of
the same poll interval do not support a latency figure. A number that has to be walked back
after publication is worse than a weaker claim made accurately the first time. The equivalent
in the first session was 2.145 seconds.
A second figure exists and we are not publishing it. From the spoken mark to the applied
stamp was 11.1 seconds, but that interval contains the client talking before pressing the
key. It is a round trip with a human in it, not a propagation time.
The most useful evidence in the run was not planned. The same certificate, on the same path,
through the same command, answered authorized_agent at 18:00:08 and revoked at 18:03:05,
with nothing between the two but the revocation.
Copy
18:00:08 relay-run-1787160460, docs/federation-note-2026-08-19.md authorized_agent
18:02:11 revocation applied
18:03:05 relay-run-1787160460, docs/federation-note-2026-08-19.md revoked
The certificate, path, command, and deployment remained unchanged. Those three lines contain
the whole claim of this engagement, and they exist because the
contractor took a baseline presentation before the mark rather than only after it.
Further details rule out other readings of the evidence. The refused certificate carried
12835 seconds of remaining validity at its last successful presentation, so the refusal
cannot be read as expiry. A second, unrelated certificate answered authorized_agent
between two refusals of the revoked one. This rules out both a verifier that went dark and a
transient fault on either side of the successful control. When the agent ran again afterwards,
it stopped before creating a branch on the contractor's fork or opening a pull request, and
there was no commit. Either party can check that absence, so the fail-closed result does not
depend on a refusal message reported by one party.
The crossing rests on two stamps: the client's send at
18:02:09.706Z, written by the client's own tooling, and the contractor's applied at
18:02:11.123Z, read from the contractor's adapter metadata. The stamps come from two systems,
and neither party holds both ends.
One limitation in that metadata, found by Agent Relay, needs stating before anyone relies on
it. The deployment publishes each verdict to its own agent metadata, which is what lets a
reader check a receipt against what the deployment actually decided. It does not fire on the
revoked path. The handler returns before the publish step when an inbound presentation is
invalid, so accepts and policy refusals are recorded there and the revocation verdict is not.
The signed receipts carry that verdict instead and verify against the verifier key.
The consequence is sharper than a missing record. Agent Relay checked that metadata after the
run, saw the control certificate's verdict as the newest entry, concluded the revoked
presentation had not run, and told us the order wrong. It had run and left no trace. The
correction came from terminal output. A gap that misleads the operator holding full access is
a different class of problem from one that inconveniences a reader.
The client's recording carries an audio track and the contractor's does not. That track
corroborates the spoken mark, but it is not a third stamp. A transient in it matches the send
time to a tenth of a second and was briefly read as the keystroke. Listening to the file
rather than measuring it shows that the room noise is captured but the keystrokes are not.
Two entries in the logs look alarming and are not, named here so no reader has to wonder. The
contractor's trust set shows a third issuer marked chain , which is an ephemeral stand-in
root left by that morning's smoke run, held in memory and discarded on the next deployment.
The client's own log repeats a deferred-delivery warning every thirty seconds from 18:22:03,
which is the client's local inbox failing to drain rather than the message to the contractor,
which plainly arrived, since it was applied 1.4 seconds later.
5. What we got wrong
Three things everyone believed were working turned out not to be. All three were found by
exercising the running process rather than by asking an artifact, and all three were found
before publication rather than by a reader.
They are also why there were two sessions. The first ran the delegation, the narrowing, the
gated write and the kill switch, and merged real work into /docs . What it did not do was
fire the federation beat, keep the receipt and its decision, or record any of it on the
contractor's side. The second session existed to close those three, and it did.
The kill switch answered every health check while holding no key. The unauthenticated
health endpoint returned {"ok":true} throughout, because it asked the artifact rather than
the process. The dummy revocation that exposed it was fired at a certificate identifier that
did not exist, deliberately, so that failure would cost nothing.
The publisher was never wired to the protocol. Agent Relay's publishing path imported
nothing from Ratify and asked no verifier anything, so it would have committed identically
whether the delegation authorized the write, refused it, or had been revoked thirty seconds
earlier. What had been proven was that a GitHub account could fork a repository and open a
pull request, which is a fact about GitHub rather than a fact about Ratify. Their account of
how it was missed is the useful part: the gap had been recorded as two separate absences, no
presentation driver and no commit path, and each was closed on its own terms. Nothing was
written down about the seam between them, so closing both looked like closing the gap.
A workflow gate would have held the pull request unapproved, on camera. GitHub holds
fork-pull-request workflows from first-time contributors until a maintainer approves them.
The rehearsal pull request came back reporting no checks and no error, which is what that
condition looks like from the outside. Merging that rehearsal rather than closing it is what
cleared the hold, because a merged pull request makes the account a returning contributor.
I am including these because a launch story that reported only the passing half would have
been the wrong kind of evidence for a protocol whose entire proposition is that you should
not have to take anyone's word for anything.
6. Where enforcement actually happens
The architecture needs the same honesty as the proof, so here is the split.
Ratify supplies the portable delegated-authority proof: who delegated what, to whom, bounded
how, and whether it still stands, verifiable by either side offline. The execution
environment supplies the enforcement. Revocation propagated through an Agent Relay handoff,
narrowing happened across an Agent Relay hop, and the consequential filesystem write was
mediated at Agent Relay's boundary before anything became observable.
Agent Relay states that the boundary is OS-enforced, and this engagement did not test that
claim. The two adversarial cases that would have tested it, path traversal outside the bound
and two-principal isolation, are the two that skip. What the run does evidence is that the
write was gated on a verdict and refused outside the prefix. The isolation model underneath
is theirs to describe and ours to take on their word. I separate that from everything else
here that you do not have to.
A proof layer cannot enforce filesystem boundaries from inside a signature. The receiving
system enforces the real boundary under its stated isolation model. The
proof makes the authorization behind each action checkable by anyone, afterwards, without
requiring anyone's word.
7. What a skeptic can check
Every runnable claim verifies offline, against the published protocol releases, with no call
to either company. TypeScript, Go, Python, and Rust verify each proof decision and receipt
signature. The C lane verifies both but its current FFI does not expose the two
receipt-binding accessors.
One command replays the engagement:
Copy
git clone https://github.com/identities-ai/ratify-agent-relay-harness
cd ratify-agent-relay-harness && npm ci && npm run engagement
It exits non-zero if any published claim fails to re-verify. A clean run prints
engagement: 8/8 verified, 6/6 refused .
The harness contains one of two kinds of evidence. It holds a synthetic model
with fixture identifiers, built so someone with neither deployment can run the whole thing on
a laptop. It answers whether the mechanism behaves as described. It is not, and does not claim
to be, the certificates issued on 18 and 19 August. The model produces a signed head
checkpoint and the live sessions did not. A reader should not carry that artifact across.
The live run's certificates, receipts, deployment decisions and logs from both sides publish
separately, and those are what to check if the question is what happened on those days rather
than how the mechanism behaves.
The client's half is in the same repository, under evidence-live-2026-08/client/ : every
delegation certificate issued across both sessions, both signed revocations and their
envelopes, and the client deployment's logs across the run window.
Agent Relay publishes theirs separately at
AgentWorkforce/ratify-agent-relay-evidence ,
in the same layout with contractor/ where ours has client/ : both run records, every
certificate, the receipts with their paired deployment decisions, and the deployed image
exported as a release asset. Checking the crossing needs both halves. Either one alone
evidences only what its own side did.
The adversarial annex ships as runnable failing tests, and each case carries a negative
control proving the refusal comes from the protection under test rather than from an accident
of setup.
Two kinds of evidence sit in that annex, and the difference matters. Six
adversarial cases ran against the deployed adapter after the revocation. Eighteen
serve-authority cases run in process against a locally generated verifier: they demonstrate
the wire format and the refusal logic, and they have never touched either deployment or the
client root. Both contribute evidence, but only one is a statement about the systems
described in this note.
The receipt-and-decision pairing is exercised six ways. Stripping the signed decision
refuses. A served decision lifted onto a refused receipt is rejected. Flipping served=true
without re-signing is rejected. A decision re-signed under an attacker key is rejected. An
invalid-chain receipt is refused despite served=true . An unknown decision version is
rejected. A seventh case keeps the reasons separate, so a broken signature reads as an
invalid chain rather than as unserved authority.
Two cases are runtime-gated and skip loudly rather than pass silently: path traversal outside
the bound, and two-principal isolation. Both need two OS principals with distinct uids inside
Agent Relay's confinement boundary, and a way to run a hostile one against a victim tree. The
deployed adapter runs as a single unprivileged uid, which is the right posture for serving
traffic and the wrong shape for that experiment. Standing those principals up needs root on
the host rather than a container, so they stay skipped and the annex reads six refusals
rather than eight.
We could have run something adjacent and called it close enough. Saying what is
gated, and why, is part of why the rest is credible.
8. What this does not show
This is evidence that portable, bounded, revocable, offline-verifiable authority works across
a real organizational boundary and a real agent-runtime boundary, on real work.
This does not establish production hardening or commercial adoption, and it is not a
performance benchmark. Both deployments run the same software, so it does not demonstrate
interoperability between independent implementations. The receipt and decision pair bound to
the merged write was not retained, and the narrowing certificates shown above are a
demonstration issued afterwards rather than the ones behind that write.
9. What comes next
The Phase 1 note said the next phase would make the "where" cryptographically portable. It
now is, across two deployments operated by two companies, and a certificate naming a resource
under a deployment authority the verifier does not serve is refused while the delegation
itself stays valid.
Two things stay out of scope, and both were out of scope before the run rather than left
undone by it.
The first is independent implementations verifying each other's proofs. Both deployments run
Agent Relay's software, so this engagement shows that the proof carries what it claims to
carry, not that two separately written verifiers agree. Ratify publishes five SDKs and a
conformance suite for that question, and answering it across a live boundary needs a
second party running something other than Agent Relay's adapter.
The second is the two confinement cases the annex skips: path traversal outside the bound,
and two-principal isolation. They need two OS principals with distinct uids inside the
confinement boundary and a way to run a hostile one against a victim tree. The deployed
adapter runs as a single unprivileged uid, which is the correct posture for serving traffic,
so those cases need root on a host rather than a container.
Neither is scheduled. Both are named here so that a reader counting what was demonstrated
against what was claimed finds the same number we do.
10. If you operate a boundary like this one
The gap in §9 is an invitation rather than a complaint, so let me put it plainly.
What this engagement could not demonstrate is a verifier that Agent Relay did not write,
checking proofs that Agent Relay's adapter produced, across a live boundary. Ratify publishes
five SDKs and a conformance suite precisely so that a second party can be that verifier. What
it cannot do is supply the second party.
If you run a platform where authority crosses a system or an organizational boundary, that is
the conversation I want to have. The reason to have it is a real boundary with real
consequences on the far side of it, one we can pressure-test the way this one was
pressure-tested. Every claim in this note came out of doing that with one partner over
five weeks, and three of the most useful findings came from things both sides expected to work
and which did not.
Write to partners@ratifyprotocol.com and describe the
boundary. If you would rather pick a shape than describe one, there is a form at
ratifyprotocol.com/#partners covering a bounded
technical reference, a platform integration, a design-partner deployment, and a security
review. Neither is required, and the boundary matters more than the shape. The Phase 1 spike
began as a question about whether delegated authority could survive a handoff at all.
Ratify Protocol™
Portable authorization for AI agents
Signed delegation proofs that let receiving systems verify an agent’s authority before executing the action.
Protocol
Specification
Developer docs
SDK quickstart
Verify quickstart
GitHub
Benchmarks
Explore
Writing
Labs & demos
AI agent authorization
A2A delegation
Break the proof
Security & limits
Protocol evidence
Company
About
Design partners
Contact
LinkedIn
X
Legal
Privacy
Terms
Ratify Protocol™ and the Ratify logo are trademarks of Identities.AI, Inc. U.S. patent application pending.
© 2026 Identities.AI, Inc. All rights reserved.
Ratify Protocol is open-source alpha software. Verification depends on correctly configured trust anchors, context, and revocation policy.